okay good afternoon everybody thank you
very much for joining us my name is Alan
caileigh from the new Anglia growth hub
in case you don't know we're a free and
impartial business support service we're
here to help you helping new and
existing businesses in Norfolk and
Suffolk we can offer a face-to-face
meetings to identify your needs and to
also broker in specialist business
support services so running these
webinars this afternoon they're trying
to save you a bit of time we're just
going to leave you with the key
information and this presentation will
be available as a PDF which you can
download if there's anything you want to
go into more detail a bit later on then
call or email us and contact details
will be available later thank you very
much to bart police for sponsoring our
webinars and enabling the technology so
hopefully you can all hear us loud and
clear if you do want to speak someone
from the barclays commercial team then
we can put you in touch with the right
person so just a reminder to set this
into some context last time we looked at
the overview of grants that are
available in Norfolk and Suffolk we
looked at what they are what's available
and broadly how to apply an if you
missed that you want to catch up and
that's available using that link and but
today we're going to focus a bit more on
one of those grants which was the new
Anglia LEP's growing business fund the
session will be about 25 minutes or so
and if I kindly ask you to save
questions to the end and you can do that
by pressing the raise your hand button
later on and then you can ask your own
questions you can also use the chat box
as well so that's kind of what we're
going to be covering today and we've
just made some assumptions as to as to
why you're here you're either you're a
business and you want to find out more
about the growing business fund all
you're an organization that supports
businesses and you want to understand
the available grants and with that in
mind I'm going to attempt to launch a
quick poll here so hopefully that is now
appearing on your screen just invite you
to answer whether you're either a
business here or an organization that
supports businesses I'll just give you
just a second just to complete that
okay we've got about seventy percent
business about thirty percent
organizations that support business
that's quite interesting to see okay so
are just going to close that and we will
move on and James we just move it on one
more so James Wes I'm going to introduce
you to now one of the ten advisors that
covers the two counties he'll talk to
you about the growing business fund and
James is that you on the screen with the
purple suit and a big stack of cash
ready to give away hello yeah well I've
certainly got a big purple suit but not
always the big stack of cash and
unfortunately hello everybody my
exchange West I'm a business growth
advisor for for Norfolk Norwich North
Norfolk and West Norfolk and I'm also
the specialist in the team for the
growing business fund so today we'll
look at a bit at the local enterprise
partnerships growing business fund what
it covers where it might be able to help
you as a business the first thing is
sort of a quick overview of grants and I
grantees in investment not a gift I
grantees money given to an individual
business to help stimulate a specific
project activity or outcome grants are
to help fund something otherwise might
not happen now I know that Allen one of
my colleagues touched on on grants last
time and looked at the different types
so we've got things that will increase
energy efficiency better broadband
connections additional training for
employees etc and today we're looking at
the growing business phone which is the
main grant for business growth leading
to new jobs now grants are only normally
awarded to businesses who can
demonstrate they need them obviously
it's it's public money it's taxpayers
money you and I have contributed to it
through our taxes in one way or another
so we want to see that it's going to do
the best good and it's going to create
value for the people that receive them
so
the growing business funds so the
growing business fund provides a grant
of up to twenty percent towards capital
costs to help a business to grow it's a
potential grant of between five thousand
pounds and half a million pounds so
therefore it will support projects costs
within your business of between
twenty-five thousand and two and a half
million pounds and they have been grants
given at both ends of that spectrum for
each ten thousand pounds of grant that
you receive you must create a new
additional full-time job and that's
really the idea of this grant scheme is
that it's there to support businesses
it's there to give them that helping
hand that final twenty percent to help
them to to deliver growth in their
business but but the result that we're
looking for is to stimulate employment
employment of good quality and
preferably skilled jobs so an example is
that if you've got a 100 thousand pound
project within your business then you
could potentially get a grant of up to
20,000 pounds and for that you would
need to create two new jobs that's one
for each ten thousand pounds you receive
if it's only part of ten thousand so if
your honor if the grant was fifteen
thousand you will still need to create
those two jobs so since april 2013 it's
helped 265 businesses who've received
funding that's a total grant have
actually been paid out of thirteen point
six six million and that's meant that
with the funding that the businesses
themselves have source for this growth
that's helped them to Matt 79 million
pounds in investment into businesses
here in Norfolk and Suffolk and
crucially that's created over 1,800 jobs
so let's look at the rule so we've had a
brief overview of twenty percent grant
towards capital expenditure costs let's
have a brief look at the rule so
businesses must be a small or
medium-sized enterprise now there is a
SME that's called there is a definition
for that and essentially it's any
business with fewer than 250 employees a
turnover of 50 million euros or less and
they balance sheet of 43 million euros
or less you can find that definition
online so if you've got any question as
to whether you are an SME or not you can
look that up or you can obviously talk
to me or one of my colleagues then it
now this grand scheme will support many
sectors but
there are some sectors which are
excluded and we'll go into that in
greater detail in a moment the
businesses must be financially viable
and growing again of course this is
public funded money to help businesses
to grow so we want to see those
businesses are sustainable and going to
make the best use of the money that's
granted to them now you've got to think
in terms of a growth project and we
don't in business don't always think in
terms of project we think of what we're
going to do next week don't we going to
do next year what we want to achieve the
next five years etc but we want to think
about packaging up the growth in your
business into into some sort of project
and it's to do with capped it's going to
be based around capital expenditure so
that's things which you invest in often
physical things sometimes less tangible
things like i.t etc but the key things
the keep capital expendable will be on
premises that's either buying premises
or renovating them making changes to
them so they're suitable for your
business fixtures and fittings furniture
plants and equipment which is obviously
key if you're a manufacturer or you
process something in some way and ICT
equipment information and communication
technology equipment as well what a
grant cannot fund is it can't fund
anything which comes out of your normal
cash flow so I can't just generate more
money in the bank to help you to to
support your business to do in that way
any regular business costs it can't
cover though so you know can't pay the
electricity bill for a period of time
etc replacement of existing assets so
again this is to grow your business so
if you've got a machine or something
that's going to the end of its life you
can't simply claim to replace that it's
got to be something new and additional
and of course wage costs they are one of
the most significant costs in any
business but this is about stimulating
new jobs and employment through growing
a business not covering the cost of
wages now businesses must be able to
demonstrate that they have or can sort
can source the remaining funding that
they need so this is a 20-percent grant
which means you need to have eighty
percent of the other money preferably
you need to have that in place you don't
necessarily have to have it in your bank
account but you do have to be able to
demonstrate that you've got that money
either
within your business or from borrowing
or or some other source and it's it's
likely to materialize businesses must be
able to demonstrate the project would
not go ahead or would be delayed without
the grant and grants are a last resort
that we call them grants of last resort
they're there to help the most needy
businesses i suppose that really need
that little tiny bit just to help them
to deliver this project to grow their
business and that's the key you need to
demonstrate that you have have a genuine
need for this money and it's going to
make a really positive benefit to your
business end to the local economy if you
I cash-rich business or if you are you
have a very very good line of credit etc
then it requests and whether you're the
best recipient of their Graham and
because the grand pot is finite there's
only so much of it I think we would all
want it to go to the businesses where it
can genuinely help the most no costs
have already been incurred or jobs that
have been created can be included so
again this grant is to stimulate
something that otherwise wouldn't happen
if it's already happened ie that you've
already bought the piece of machinery or
we've already moved premises or you've
already created jobs then arguably you
don't need the grant because you've
already done it you've already
demonstrated that you could do it by
yourself so it can't fund anything
that's already occurred invest
investment cannot threaten the
displacement of customs from another
local business we'll talk a little bit
more about this later maybe but but
displacement when we talk about the
eligible I think what we'll do is we'll
talk about this that when we talk about
eligible sectors etc and I'll go into a
little bit more detail and just to
reiterate for every 10,000 pounds of
grant that you receive you must result
in the net increase in the number of
people you employ so people often say to
me while I'm buying a piece of machinery
but I want a new member of staff in my
office that doesn't matter this is about
growing the number of jobs within your
business about the net number of people
you employ so if you employ 10 people at
the moment you lucky enough to get a
ground to be a beneficiary of it and
you've said that you'll create two jobs
you simply need to demonstrate that your
number of employees has risen from 10 to
12 within a reasonable period of time
typically to take 6 to 12 months
so let's look at eligible sectors now
the left has which is the local
enterprise partnership which is the body
that dude that provides this grant has
some priority sectors that's
manufacturing and engineering energy
biotech and health and life sciences ICT
and digital creative businesses as
technology businesses and what they call
Agrotech which is obviously the
application of technology within
agriculture now those are the priority
sectors and so naturally if you're in
many of those sectors you are likely to
be eligible for this grant if you're not
in one of those sexes it doesn't mean
you won't be eligible there are just as
many businesses and just as many sectors
outside of that who will be eligible and
there are of course some sectors which
are not eligible I'm not going to go
into to greater detail as to why
believer you've got things like primary
agriculture and horticulture fisheries
etc forestry they a lot of these areas
have support in other ways from other
government bodies or organizations I
won't read the whole list but the
crucial point really is is this is this
idea of displacement so you've got
things like retail in their restaurants
farms farm shops cafes post offices
hairdressers etc the idea of
displacement is that this grant is there
to help stimulate growth within the
business if you took let's say we took
two identical businesses to cafes in the
same town if a grant was given to one
cafe it would obviously help that
business but there's a risk that it
would simply take customers from the
other cafe it's unlikely that they would
raise the number of generally the number
of people that use cafes I net increase
in the number of people using that it's
likely that it would displace some of
the customers for another cafe this
grant is not about creating a sort of I
suppose an unfair competitive advantage
it's about bringing everybody's level up
bringing the level of the economy up so
there are certain industries where that
risk of displacement would be too high
so if you think that's if you're in a
retail environment where you're rather
than processing or adding value to
something you're simply selling
something on this might not be the grant
for you the best thing to do is always
to speak to us at the growth
and ask the question and say well you
know would I be eligible for this and
just to reiterate at the bottom their
applications from other sectors will be
considered on their merits you know
basically ask us that's that's that's
the thing to do most most sectors
there's more far more sectors that are
included in this ground then excluded
from this grant so come and talk to us
and we'll give you an honest opinion as
to whether we think it's going to be
right for your business eligible costs I
think we've touched a little bit on this
earlier this is a table that's taken
from the guidance document if you want
to copy the guidance document of course
just get in contact with us and we'll
we'll talk to you and send you a copy of
this but this is a really useful table
that I direct a lot of businesses on I
speak to two there are basically three
types of costs there are preferred costs
there are acceptable costs and there are
ineligible project costs well ineligible
project costs speak for themselves and
really that's things like research and
development road transport vehicles
working capital and operating costs so
we've talked about any cost to do today
the day-to-day running of your business
or replacing things that you're already
using or covering wage costs etc they
are excluded this is a project very much
about capital investment to grow your
business road transport vehicles again
they're excluded so in wheels you know
certain pieces of very industrial
machinery would would be supported but
anything that sort of a road-going
vehicle is it and for the transplant a
transportation of people Goods is likely
to be excluded and research and
development again this is not a fund
really to a grant to support and the
development of ideas it's really
genuinely there to help growth into into
something which you your share fairly
sure we'll bring results and acceptable
project costs so we've got marketing
creating a new website professional fees
recruitment costs no that's recruitment
costs not wage costs training costs stop
where it's an additional one off
purchase of a lot of stock to deliver a
project and there are other costs which
may be considered there as well now
those are the acceptable costs when I
say to businesses is if if your claim is
purely
acceptable cost purely cost sit in that
middle bracket there that yellow area
then it makes struggle be supported what
you really need is some of the preferred
project costs in there as well that's
where the balance needs to be so the
preferred project costs premises now
that's the construction purchase
extension and improvement process so
that's either you're moving to a say a
larger or or more appropriate premises
and you're buying it or you may be
leasing it and you may have costs to do
with making it suitable for what you
want to do whatever your your business
does moving machinery and the electrics
accept things like that fixtures and
fittings and furniture again that's
mostly internally and to making the
building suitable for your needs plant
an equipment machinery and tooling this
is one of the one of the sweet spots if
you like of this grant so if you are
manufacturing and engineering business
or somebody who does something physical
with a physical product then any
machinery or equipment you need for that
is is something which often get support
from the grant fund IT equipment
software are nice is a licenses again
particularly if you're a digital company
or a creative company then IT equipment
software licenses can be can be very
relevant so again before we move on from
this side just to say we want to see
some expenditure or the majority of
expenditure within those preferred costs
those acceptable costs will be supported
as well but I do do tend to say to
businesses it's good if we can see that
there are costs within that preferred
bracket just to talk about assisted
areas now assisted areas are deprived
areas that the European Commission and
the government have ruled eligible for
additional support now there's only
within norfolk and suffolk within you
angry within our region there are three
areas parts of Great Yarmouth parts of
Lowestoft and parts of Ipswich they
obviously attract more support from
certain projects and this is one of them
so this sliding scale there but if
you're a small or micro business with
fewer than 50 staff this twenty percent
grant becomes a 30-percent grant so
there's a ten percent uplift if you're a
medium business it's it's the same
amount and if you're a large business
which would not normally qualify for the
growing business fund
you will potentially receive ten percent
so there are some larger businesses
there that have had grants even though
they fall outside of the SME definition
so I just want to talk about the process
and I think I can be honest in saying
this as a growing business advisor we
obviously help businesses to access a
number of grants and other types of
support and I will genuinely say that
this is one of the more streamlined and
better processes quicker streamlined
less onus on the business everybody
wants you know or want businesses to be
able to benefit from this money and we
want to try and make it as painless as
possible of course we will need
information and there are things that
your criteria that you'll need to
achieve and and you do need to commit to
that and then put and provide the
information but it really is one of the
best grant schemes for for ease of
application so the first thing is that
if you if you think it might be
appropriate for you you need to come and
speak to us at the growth hub myself and
one of my colleagues there's eight of us
at the moment across Norfolk and
Southern we are the gatekeepers if you
like and what we'll do is give you an
honest opinion of whether it's right for
you or not right for you or come out and
have a chat with you in your business
and we'll work out whether there's a
good fit there because obviously you're
not your time is very precious to you
and you don't want to waste it the shin
form and it's it is a simple form it's
only about four or five I think five or
six pages long but its its general
details about your business and then
I'll talk a little bit more about the
content in a moment that then goes
forward in it and is reviewed by a body
called finance East which is the
organization that does the due diligence
if you like for this grand scheme
they'll look at that and they'll decide
whether they think that you can that
you've got a chance of being supported
and if there's any question marks
they'll discuss that at the local
enterprise partnership and if you're
accepted you'll go through to the full
application stage now this obviously is
where they want more details about your
business about your plans about the
opportunity that this grant will help
you to realize but again I would say
there's nothing in information in there
that's
it's two owners and nothing I don't that
you wouldn't expect to have to provide
fun at ease will really really will
support you through that process and
help you to to get all the information
you need and give it the best chance it
then goes to the panel depending on the
size of the grant it's either virtually
emailed to the panel or the panel do
actually meet once a month and they will
review the application and make a
decision and the panel is made up of
people from the public sector such as
the district councils and people from
the private sector as well so business
owners like yourselves they will make a
decision and if you are successful then
you'll be advised and you can then go
ahead and spend the money and create
your project just to talk about how you
recoup the money how you get the value
of the ground what will happen is once
you've been awarded successfully awarded
the grant you can go away and start
spending obviously it's not buying the
the the capital goods etc that you need
once you have spent the value of the
ground they say the grants of 20,000
pounds you'll provide an invoice that
says I've spent this amount or more and
that amount of money will be refunded to
you at the end of a reasonable period
you will be asked to report and you'll
need to demonstrate that you spend all
the money that you said you were going
to spend and crucially that you have
created the jobs that you said you were
going to create obviously with business
the best laid plans can go as sometimes
to waste but you know it you do need to
commit to doing what you said you were
going to do if you're creating if you if
you experience any difficulties which
does happen in business then the
administrators of the scheme will always
work with you to find a way around there
and ensure that that you can satisfy
those criteria say the expression of
interest form so that's the initial
application form that's only available
from us here at the growth hub myself
and my colleagues will help you with it
we will even help you to write it what I
did we say to businesses I give them a
form and I say look just get the
information down on the page don't worry
about what it looks like don'twe about
it what it reads like and I will help
you to construct it and give it the best
chance possible it's a very simple i
think it's i think it's six pages
business details description of your
business activities
so that's just 200 words on what your
business does in a nutshell as if
somebody has no idea what your business
is 400 words on your business growth and
expansion plans this is the project that
you want to be supported 200 words on
why the grant is needed and this is
where you need to genuinely show that
this graph will help you to deliver this
project or deliver this project sooner
and create this job sooner project
expended to so that's a breakdown of
what you're going to spend and what
you're going to spend it on and then the
funding that you've secured elsewhere
the eight the other eighty percent you
need and then of course declaration and
signature so summary so the growing
business fund provides a 20-percent
grant towards capital costs to grow your
business many types of business and
costs are eligible so we've go back and
have a look at this presentation contact
us if you want to see the guidance
document contact us if you want to have
a chat with an advisor you know it's
always better to ask the question and we
don't know them then they're not know
and there are an awful lot of businesses
normal costs which are eligible for this
grant grant must help deliver growth
that might otherwise not happen that's
the crucial thing so ask yourselves you
do will this money really help your
business is it is it crucial to to
delivering this growth for every 10,000
pounds received you must create an
additional full-time job that's not
flexible so you do need to be creating
more employment if you're going to be a
recipient of this grant and again you
can only apply for the grant through the
new Anglia growth hub so if you've got
any questions at all come and speak to
us I'm now going to hand you back to my
colleague Allen Hill just wrap up and
we'll see if you got any questions thank
you James and if you just move on just
one more slide just before we go to
questions just want to quickly tell you
what we've got coming up next month
we're going to look at business planning
we've got a session on lending in June
and then in July Morgan Potter and other
growth of advisor here will talk you
through R&D tax credits we also want to
hear your suggestions as well so if
there's any topics you wanted to cover
then do get in touch with us so we go to
questions will go to the questions that
have been typed in through first in the
chat box we've got Simon Binks and he's
asking does the ground cover
at software development okay the answer
to that is is it it's not a simple
answer I think I think the answer is no
researching development per se are not
covered so if it's if it's purely cost
to develop something in the hope of
creating some sort of product or service
for your customers then no that would be
research and development if it's about
developing a spoke piece of software to
help your business to deliver what it
does and to help grow your business then
it may be supported so it really depends
on what you're developing the software
for I think the I'm afraid that's
probably not not a simple answer but I
think in those in that circumstance it
would be best to discuss it with us so
it's it's it's a yes and a no okay thank
James Gordon Brock asks what is the
definition of job creation so for
instance does it include apprenticeships
zero-hours contracts or cut or
contractors okay that's a very good
question as well ok well the definition
of job creation is that the net number
of people you employ Rises so if you've
this these are employed people these are
PA ye staff they can't be subcontractors
or self-employed people or people on
temporary or seasonal contracts it needs
to be a a permanent contract of more
than 30 hours per week now you can
include part-timers I think what you
would need is each part time it needs to
be a minimum of 16 hours so that two
part-timers together would be a minimum
of thirty two hours or more than 30 in
other words it can include apprentices
of course what I would say is that
really of course what we want to do is
you want to stimulate good quality
skilled jobs here in Norfolk and Suffolk
so if your if your application is sit
only to support an apprentice or a very
low skaters low-paid low-skilled job
then it might not be as favorably
supported as one way we've got slightly
higher paid slightly more skilled jobs
so apprentices yes but
depend on the general general
application as to whether the project
would be supported okay Thank You Angela
I'm going to see if we can go to i think
i hope i'm pronouncing your name I is
Eloise you you there on the line yes
yeah do you wanna ask you a question
then I just have a question about why
purchasing current leased premises is
not eligible with it you want to buy the
building you're renting and you had an
offer okay that's a really good question
which if I'm honest I don't know the
answer to I don't want I don't want to
give you a wrong answer or mislead you
you cannot as you correctly as you
correctly said that if you are buying
the premises which you're already in
then it's it can't be included I think
it's primarily a if I if I and this is
my opinion rather than true so I want to
put a caveat on this but I think that if
you're buying the premises you're ready
in it's rather than growth of the
business are you expanding the business
doing something new improving your
structure it's it's often a financial
decision or something of that nature
nature rather than a capital expenditure
to expand the business so if you're
buying the premises you're in it
wouldn't be covered if you are buying a
new premises preferably that's more
suitable for what you're doing then it
it would I don't have a definitive
answer for you I'm afraid that was that
is something that laid out by the the
people that established a grant fund
okay is I think it's okay it's okay I
apologize if you want it if you want to
contact me separately I've you know
we'll look further into it and i'll get
you a more decisive answer okay um Lee
Taylor either Lee okay um Lee Mason I
think you on the line you also have a
question okay Lee's question he also
typed in here is can you link this grant
with the B grant that's the business
energy efficiency grant so if you're
going to be purchasing equipment to help
you become more efficient I believe you
you can James is that right
well I suppose that actually I would say
that the the simple answer is is no when
they're looking at so you're looking for
a good this this grand scheme will
provide a grant of twenty percent and
you need to demonstrate that you have
the other eighty percent either in place
or access to those funds public funding
for those other eighty percent grow I
grant funding from other sources cannot
be counted so if you're already
receiving grant funding for the other
eighty percent or receiving that money
somewhere from explicit business support
grants then it in itself cannot be
counted if you're receiving grants four
elements of what you're doing such as
the the B grant for energy efficiency
etc then that's simply an area that
could be that could be potentially
excluded so if they're helping you with
your lighting or heating efficiency
that's a part of your of your growing
business fund grant that that would be
excluded from it but you can't you can't
match a grant-funded source in this the
growing business one with another grant
funded business grant but you can apply
for more than 10 it's not it's not a
barrier to stop you applying you should
you know as businesses if if you think
that you can benefit from these grants
you should apply for anything that you
think is applicable to help your
business it's just that in offsetting it
as saying that it's part of the money
that you have to support another grant
application that's that's where you
might not be able to double count okay
thank you James right last chance i'm
just going to ask you if you've got any
more questions to hit the raise your
hand button and we'll we'll go to that
go to your question but we've answered
all the ones that came through on that
on the chat box so any more questions
comment from rahim ali love the webinars
so okay thank you okay so we'll leave it
there then thanks very much for joining
us hope to see you on the on the next
session so thank you and good afternoon
thank you from